>>> SO, STEVE, STEVE RATNER IS
>>> SO, STEVE, STEVE RATNER IS HERE WITH THE CHARTS.
HERE WITH THE CHARTS. WAKE UP THE KIDS.
WAKE UP THE KIDS. >> IF YOU HAVE SMALL CHILDREN,
>> IF YOU HAVE SMALL CHILDREN, YOU MIGHT WANT TO TAKE THEM AWAY
YOU MIGHT WANT TO TAKE THEM AWAY FROM THE TELEVISION RIGHT NOW
FROM THE TELEVISION RIGHT NOW FOR JUST A MOMENT.
FOR JUST A MOMENT. >> NO, NO, EVEN ON THE WEST
>> NO, NO, EVEN ON THE WEST COAST, IT’S 3:30 IN THE MORNING
COAST, IT’S 3:30 IN THE MORNING OR SO.
OR SO. WAKE YOUR KIDS UP.
WAKE YOUR KIDS UP. THIS IS GOING TO BE WORTH IT.
THIS IS GOING TO BE WORTH IT. I’VE BEEN HEARING A LOT ABOUT
I’VE BEEN HEARING A LOT ABOUT AMERICANS BEING CONCERNED
AMERICANS BEING CONCERNED THEY’RE NOT GETTING AS MUCH IN
THEY’RE NOT GETTING AS MUCH IN TAX RETURNS ORIGINALLY, THEY
TAX RETURNS ORIGINALLY, THEY WERE BLAME
WERE BLAME WERE BLAMING DONALD TRUMP SAYING
WERE BLAMING DONALD TRUMP SAYING I’M NOT GOING TO VOTE FOR HIM
I’M NOT GOING TO VOTE FOR HIM AGAIN AND THEN THEY’RE SAYING,
AGAIN AND THEN THEY’RE SAYING, NO, YOU’RE NOT PAYING MORE
NO, YOU’RE NOT PAYING MORE TAXES.
TAXES. CAN YOU CLEAR IT UP FOR US?
CAN YOU CLEAR IT UP FOR US? >> PEOPLE ARE DISUPONAPPOINTED W
>> PEOPLE ARE DISUPONAPPOINTED W WHAT THEY’RE GETTING.
WHAT THEY’RE GETTING. WE KNEW THE TAX BILL WAS GOING
WE KNEW THE TAX BILL WAS GOING TO BE SMALL DOLLARS FOR PEOPLE,
TO BE SMALL DOLLARS FOR PEOPLE, IT WAS GOING TO BE REGRESSIVE,
IT WAS GOING TO BE REGRESSIVE, FAVORING THE RICH.
FAVORING THE RICH. I WANTED TO CON SENCENTRATE ON W
I WANTED TO CON SENCENTRATE ON W WE CALL SALT, THE SATURDAY AND
WE CALL SALT, THE SATURDAY AND LOCAL TAX.
LOCAL TAX. THESE ARE ORGANIZED BY WHAT
THESE ARE ORGANIZED BY WHAT PERCENTAGE OF RESIDENTS USED THE
PERCENTAGE OF RESIDENTS USED THE LOCAL DEDUCTIONS IN THE PAST
LOCAL DEDUCTIONS IN THE PAST YEARS.
YEARS. MARYLAND, THEY WERE THE MOST
MARYLAND, THEY WERE THE MOST FREQUENT USERS OF IT.
FREQUENT USERS OF IT. YOU CAN SEE DISPROPORTIONATELY
YOU CAN SEE DISPROPORTIONATELY THE STATES IN WHICH THE TAX
THE STATES IN WHICH THE TAX DEDUCTION WAS HISTORICALLY USED
DEDUCTION WAS HISTORICALLY USED WERE BLUE STATES.
WERE BLUE STATES. THE STATES IN WHICH THE
THE STATES IN WHICH THE DEDUCTIONS WERE NOT USED ARE
DEDUCTIONS WERE NOT USED ARE HISTORICALLY RED STATES.
HISTORICALLY RED STATES. WHEN THE REPUBLICANS TOOK AIM AT
WHEN THE REPUBLICANS TOOK AIM AT THIS PROVISION, NOBODY SHOULD BE
THIS PROVISION, NOBODY SHOULD BE CONFUSED ABOUT ELECTIONS HAVING
CONFUSED ABOUT ELECTIONS HAVING CONSEQUENCES.
CONSEQUENCES. NOW WE CAN SEE THE CONSEQUENCES.
NOW WE CAN SEE THE CONSEQUENCES. LET’S TAKE A LOOK AT HOUSE
LET’S TAKE A LOOK AT HOUSE PRICES.
PRICES. CAN YOU SEE IN THESE CITY, THE
CAN YOU SEE IN THESE CITY, THE NATIONWIDE IN BLACK BUT THEN
NATIONWIDE IN BLACK BUT THEN PHOENIX, NEW YORK, LOS ANGELES,
PHOENIX, NEW YORK, LOS ANGELES, YOU CAN SEE THERE WAS A PRETTY
YOU CAN SEE THERE WAS A PRETTY STEADY INCREASE BOTH IN HOUSE
STEADY INCREASE BOTH IN HOUSE PRICES AND IN THE RATE OF GROWTH
PRICES AND IN THE RATE OF GROWTH OF HOUSE PRICES RIGHT UP UNTIL
OF HOUSE PRICES RIGHT UP UNTIL WHERE THE BILL WAS PASSED.
WHERE THE BILL WAS PASSED. AND THEN AFTER THE BILL WAS
AND THEN AFTER THE BILL WAS PASSED, YOU CAN SEE THAT NEW
PASSED, YOU CAN SEE THAT NEW YORK AND LOS ANGELES, HOUSE
YORK AND LOS ANGELES, HOUSE PRICES, THE RATE OF GROWTH OF
PRICES, THE RATE OF GROWTH OF HOUSE PRICES IMMEDIATELY TURNED
HOUSE PRICES IMMEDIATELY TURNED DOWN, L.A. WAS PARTICULARLY BAD
DOWN, L.A. WAS PARTICULARLY BAD AND THEN YOU CAN SEE OLD PHOENIX
AND THEN YOU CAN SEE OLD PHOENIX UP HERE WHERE HOUSE PRICE
UP HERE WHERE HOUSE PRICE INCREASES ACTUALLY ACCELERATED.
INCREASES ACTUALLY ACCELERATED. WE’VE ALL HEARD ANECDOTAL
WE’VE ALL HEARD ANECDOTAL EVIDENCE ABOUT HOW TOUGH THE
EVIDENCE ABOUT HOW TOUGH THE HOUSING MARKET IS IN THE
HOUSING MARKET IS IN THE NORTHEAST, HERE’S ACTUALLY
NORTHEAST, HERE’S ACTUALLY EVIDENCE OF THE IMPACT ON PEOPLE
EVIDENCE OF THE IMPACT ON PEOPLE IN TERMS OF THE VAULLUE OF THEIR
IN TERMS OF THE VAULLUE OF THEIR HOUSES.
HOUSES. AND THEN THE QUESTION IS ARE
AND THEN THE QUESTION IS ARE PEOPLE LEAVING?
PEOPLE LEAVING? ANECDOTAL EVIDENCE IS PRETTY
ANECDOTAL EVIDENCE IS PRETTY HIGH.
HIGH. THERE’S A 3.2 BUDGET SHORTFALL
THERE’S A 3.2 BUDGET SHORTFALL IN NEW YORK.
IN NEW YORK. NEW JERSEY FAMOUSLY EVEN BEFORE
NEW JERSEY FAMOUSLY EVEN BEFORE THIS LAW LOST ITS SINGLE HIGHEST
THIS LAW LOST ITS SINGLE HIGHEST PAYING TAXPAYER LEFT FOR
PAYING TAXPAYER LEFT FOR FLORIDA.
FLORIDA. WHAT ARE THE STATES AT RISK?
WHAT ARE THE STATES AT RISK? WHAT ARE THE STATES WHERE THE
WHAT ARE THE STATES WHERE THE RAELTY Y
RAELTY Y WEALTHY USE THE TAX DEDUCTION
WEALTHY USE THE TAX DEDUCTION AND PAY THE HIGHEST MARGINAL
AND PAY THE HIGHEST MARGINAL RATES AND NOT SURPRISINGLY, THEY
RATES AND NOT SURPRISINGLY, THEY ARE ALL BLUE STATES IN THE
ARE ALL BLUE STATES IN THE NORTHEAST.
NORTHEAST. THE REPUBLICANS WON THE
THE REPUBLICANS WON THE ELECTION, THEY NEEDED REPRESENT
ELECTION, THEY NEEDED REPRESENT KNEW TO PAY FOR THEIR CORPORATE
KNEW TO PAY FOR THEIR CORPORATE AND INDIVIDUAL TAX CUTS TO
AND INDIVIDUAL TAX CUTS TO WEALTHY PEOPLE AND THEY TOOK A
WEALTHY PEOPLE AND THEY TOOK A LOT OF IT BY REMOVING THIS
LOT OF IT BY REMOVING THIS DEDUCTION, WHICH HURT AN AWFUL
DEDUCTION, WHICH HURT AN AWFUL LOT OF PEOPLE IN THE NORTHEAST
LOT OF PEOPLE IN THE NORTHEAST AND COMPANY.
AND COMPANY. AND, STEVE, ALSO, WE PREDICTED
AND, STEVE, ALSO, WE PREDICTED WHEN IT HAPPENED THAT IT HURT A
WHEN IT HAPPENED THAT IT HURT A LOT OF REPUBLICANS RUNNING IN
LOT OF REPUBLICANS RUNNING IN CALIFORNIA IN THE HOUSE RACES
CALIFORNIA IN THE HOUSE RACES AND HURT A LOT OF REPUBLICANS
AND HURT A LOT OF REPUBLICANS RUNNING IN NEW YORK STATE IN THE
RUNNING IN NEW YORK STATE IN THE HOUSE RACES.
HOUSE RACES. YOU HEARD PEOPLE IN CALIFORNIA
YOU HEARD PEOPLE IN CALIFORNIA TALKING ABOUT IT.
TALKING ABOUT IT. MY GOSH, THAT’S WHERE A LOT OF
MY GOSH, THAT’S WHERE A LOT OF THOSE SEATS WERE PICKED UP AT
THOSE SEATS WERE PICKED UP AT THE END OF THE DAY.
THE END OF THE DAY. IN ALL OF THOSE CLOSE RACES, IT
IN ALL OF THOSE CLOSE RACES, IT HAD TO MAKE A BIG DIFFERENCE.
HAD TO MAKE A BIG DIFFERENCE. I’M JUST CURIOUS, WHAT’S YOUR
I’M JUST CURIOUS, WHAT’S YOUR RESPONSE TO "THE WALL STREET
RESPONSE TO "THE WALL STREET JOURNAL" EDITORIAL YESTERDAY
JOURNAL" EDITORIAL YESTERDAY THAT A LOT OF THOSE BLUFE STATES
THAT A LOT OF THOSE BLUFE STATES HAVE EXTRAORDINARILY HIGH TAX
HAVE EXTRAORDINARILY HIGH TAX RATES BECAUSE THEY’VE BEEN
RATES BECAUSE THEY’VE BEEN PURSUING LIBERAL POLICIES FOR
PURSUING LIBERAL POLICIES FOR YEARS AND YEARS AND IT’S NOT THE
YEARS AND YEARS AND IT’S NOT THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT’S JOB TO BAIL
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT’S JOB TO BAIL THEM OUT?
THEM OUT? WHAT’S THE RESPONSE TO THAT?
WHAT’S THE RESPONSE TO THAT? >> I UNDERSTAND THE ARGUMENT.
>> I UNDERSTAND THE ARGUMENT. THEY ARE HIGH-TAX STATES.
THEY ARE HIGH-TAX STATES. GOVERNOR CUOMO SAID YOU CAN’T
GOVERNOR CUOMO SAID YOU CAN’T JUST KEEP TAXING WEALTHY PEOPLE
JUST KEEP TAXING WEALTHY PEOPLE OVER AND OVER AGAIN.
OVER AND OVER AGAIN. THERE’S SOMETHING LIKE 1% OF THE
THERE’S SOMETHING LIKE 1% OF THE RESIDENTS OF NEW YORK PAY
RESIDENTS OF NEW YORK PAY SOMETHING LIKE 45% OF THE INCOME
SOMETHING LIKE 45% OF THE INCOME TAXES.
TAXES. SO YOU RUN THAT RISK.
SO YOU RUN THAT RISK. BUT THERE’S A COUPLE OTHER
BUT THERE’S A COUPLE OTHER POINTS TO BE MADE.
POINTS TO BE MADE. FIRST, YOU COULD ARGUE THAT THE
FIRST, YOU COULD ARGUE THAT THE STATE -- WITHOUT THE STATE AND
STATE -- WITHOUT THE STATE AND LOCAL TAX DEDUCTION, IT’S KIND
LOCAL TAX DEDUCTION, IT’S KIND OF A FORM OF DOUBLE TAXATION.
OF A FORM OF DOUBLE TAXATION. YOU’RE TAXED ONCE BY THE
YOU’RE TAXED ONCE BY THE GOVERNMENT, ONCE BY THE STATE
GOVERNMENT, ONCE BY THE STATE AND YOU DON’T GET ANY CREDIT FOR
AND YOU DON’T GET ANY CREDIT FOR HAVING PAID TO THE STATE.
HAVING PAID TO THE STATE. AND THE SECOND ARGUMENT IS THE
AND THE SECOND ARGUMENT IS THE MOST PROSPEROUS STATES,
MOST PROSPEROUS STATES, ESPECIALLY IN THE NORTH, ARE
ESPECIALLY IN THE NORTH, ARE DISPROPORTIONATE LOSERS TO HOW
DISPROPORTIONATE LOSERS TO HOW MUCH MONEY IS ALLOCATED.
MUCH MONEY IS ALLOCATED. SO THERE’S STILL A BIG TRANSFER
SO THERE’S STILL A BIG TRANSFER OF FEDERAL INCOME IN EFFECT FROM
OF FEDERAL INCOME IN EFFECT FROM NEW YORK TO PLACES LIKE
NEW YORK TO PLACES LIKE MISSISSIPPI OR ALABAMA AND
MISSISSIPPI OR ALABAMA AND PLACES LOOK THAT.
PLACES LOOK THAT. SO THERE’S A LOT OF PUTS AND
SO THERE’S A LOT OF PUTS AND TAKES IN OUR FISCAL POLICY AND
TAKES IN OUR FISCAL POLICY AND IN OUR TAX CODE AND I’M NOT SURE
IN OUR TAX CODE AND I’M NOT SURE THAT -- I’M NOT SURE THAT THIS
THAT -- I’M NOT SURE THAT THIS IS PARTICULARLY FAIR.
IS PARTICULARLY FAIR. AND REMEMBER ONE OTHER THING,
AND REMEMBER ONE OTHER THING, THIS WAS DONE, ONE, TO PUNISH
THIS WAS DONE, ONE, TO PUNISH THE BLUE SAYS WHO HADN’T VOTED
THE BLUE SAYS WHO HADN’T VOTED FOR REPUBLICANS AND, TWO, TO
FOR REPUBLICANS AND, TWO, TO FIND REVENUE TO PAY FOR THOSE
FIND REVENUE TO PAY FOR THOSE INDIVIDUAL TAX CULTS YOU
INDIVIDUAL TAX CULTS YOU REFERRED TO AT THE BEGINNING,
REFERRED TO AT THE BEGINNING, WHICH GO DISPROPORTIONATELY TO
WHICH GO DISPROPORTIONATELY TO THE RICH.
THE RICH. >> JONATHAN LEMIRE, THIS IS PART
>> JONATHAN LEMIRE, THIS IS PART OF ANOTHER UNDERLYING PROBLEM
OF ANOTHER UNDERLYING PROBLEM FOR DEMOCRATS, AND IT HAS TO DO
FOR DEMOCRATS, AND IT HAS TO DO WITH, AGAIN, HOW GEOGRAPHICALLY
WITH, AGAIN, HOW GEOGRAPHICALLY DIVIDED THE COUNTRY IS.
DIVIDED THE COUNTRY IS. THE DEMOCRATS OBVIOUSLY VERY
THE DEMOCRATS OBVIOUSLY VERY STRONG ON THE COAST BUT FOR THE
STRONG ON THE COAST BUT FOR THE MOST PART WEAK ONCE YOU GO WEST
MOST PART WEAK ONCE YOU GO WEST OF THE HUDSON RIVER ALL THE WAY
OF THE HUDSON RIVER ALL THE WAY OUT TO, YOU KNOW, NEVADA.
OUT TO, YOU KNOW, NEVADA. IT SEEMS, AGAIN, WHILE EVERYBODY
IT SEEMS, AGAIN, WHILE EVERYBODY IS FOCUSING ON DONALD TRUMP,
IS FOCUSING ON DONALD TRUMP, DEMOCRATS HAVE GOT TO FIGURE OUT
DEMOCRATS HAVE GOT TO FIGURE OUT HOW TO START WINNING SENATE
HOW TO START WINNING SENATE RACES AGAIN IN THE MIDDLE OF
RACES AGAIN IN THE MIDDLE OF AMERICA BECAUSE UNTIL THEY DO
AMERICA BECAUSE UNTIL THEY DO THAT, EVERYBODY JUDGE THAT IS
THAT, EVERYBODY JUDGE THAT IS APPOINTED TO THE SUPREME COURT
APPOINTED TO THE SUPREME COURT IS GOING TO BE A CONSERVATIVE.
IS GOING TO BE A CONSERVATIVE. AGAIN, WE’VE GOT CLAIRE
AGAIN, WE’VE GOT CLAIRE McCASKILL ON AT 7:00 TO TALK
McCASKILL ON AT 7:00 TO TALK ABOUT THIS.
ABOUT THIS. THIS IS A PARTY, DON’T YOU THINK
THIS IS A PARTY, DON’T YOU THINK THAT, DESPERATELY NEEDS TO
THAT, DESPERATELY NEEDS TO FIGURE OUT HOW TO START WINNING
FIGURE OUT HOW TO START WINNING IN THE MIDDLE OF AMERICA AGAIN.
IN THE MIDDLE OF AMERICA AGAIN. >> I THINK THAT’S EXACTLY RIGHT.
>> I THINK THAT’S EXACTLY RIGHT. WE SEE HOW DIVIDED THIS COUNTRY
WE SEE HOW DIVIDED THIS COUNTRY IS GEOGRAPHICALLY, HOW POLARIZED
IS GEOGRAPHICALLY, HOW POLARIZED IT IS AND DEMOCRATS DO RUN A
IT IS AND DEMOCRATS DO RUN A RISK OF BECOMING SIMPLY THE
RISK OF BECOMING SIMPLY THE PARTY OF THE COASTAL STATES,
PARTY OF THE COASTAL STATES, WHERE THE BIG POPULATION CENTERS
WHERE THE BIG POPULATION CENTERS ARE.
ARE. THERE ARE A FEW EXCEPTION IN THE
THERE ARE A FEW EXCEPTION IN THE MIDWEST, CHICAGO, MAKING
MIDWEST, CHICAGO, MAKING ILLINOIS A BLUE STATE.
ILLINOIS A BLUE STATE. THAT’S WHY FOR DEMOCRATS THERE
THAT’S WHY FOR DEMOCRATS THERE IS SOME HEAT AND INTEREST IN
IS SOME HEAT AND INTEREST IN SOME OF THE MORE MIDWEST
SOME OF THE MORE MIDWEST CANDIDATES FOR PRESIDENT, AMY
CANDIDATES FOR PRESIDENT, AMY KLOBUCHAR AND SHE VERY
KLOBUCHAR AND SHE VERY SPECIFICALLY MADE HER PITCH OVER
SPECIFICALLY MADE HER PITCH OVER THE WEEKEND AS SHE STOOD THERE
THE WEEKEND AS SHE STOOD THERE IN THE SNOW SAYING I’M GOING TO
IN THE SNOW SAYING I’M GOING TO BE THE MIDWEST CANDIDATE, THIS
BE THE MIDWEST CANDIDATE, THIS ELECTION IN 2016 WAS LOST IN
ELECTION IN 2016 WAS LOST IN THESE STATES, IT WAS LOST IN
THESE STATES, IT WAS LOST IN PENNSYLVANIA, IT WAS LOST IN
PENNSYLVANIA, IT WAS LOST IN MICHIGAN, IT WAS LOST IN
MICHIGAN, IT WAS LOST IN WISCONSIN AND SHE EVEN MADE A
WISCONSIN AND SHE EVEN MADE A JOKE SAYING HOW SHE WOULD
JOKE SAYING HOW SHE WOULD CAMPAIGN IN WISCONSIN, WHICH OF
CAMPAIGN IN WISCONSIN, WHICH OF COURSE HILLARY CLINTON FAMOUSLY
COURSE HILLARY CLINTON FAMOUSLY DID NOT IN THE STRETCH RUN OF
DID NOT IN THE STRETCH RUN OF THE CAMPAIGN.
THE CAMPAIGN. I THINK THERE IS SOME
I THINK THERE IS SOME RECOGNITION AT LEAST IN CERTAIN
RECOGNITION AT LEAST IN CERTAIN QUARTERS OF THE PARTY THAT THEY
QUARTERS OF THE PARTY THAT THEY WIN MORE LOCAL RACES IN STATES
WIN MORE LOCAL RACES IN STATES LIKE THESE, WIN SENATE RACES SO
LIKE THESE, WIN SENATE RACES SO THEY HAVE THE ABILITY TO HELP
THEY HAVE THE ABILITY TO HELP SHAPE THE JUDICIARY, WHICH RIGHT
SHAPE THE JUDICIARY, WHICH RIGHT NOW OF COURSE MITCH McCONNELL
NOW OF COURSE MITCH McCONNELL AND DONALD TRUMP IS ARGUABLY
AND DONALD TRUMP IS ARGUABLY THEIR MOST BIGGEST
THEIR MOST BIGGEST ACCOMPLISHMENT IS BRINGING IN
ACCOMPLISHMENT IS BRINGING IN CONSERVATIVE JUDGE AFTER
CONSERVATIVE JUDGE AFTER CONSERVATIVE JUDGE AFTER
CONSERVATIVE JUDGE AFTER CONSERVATIVE JUDGE ON TO THE
CONSERVATIVE JUDGE ON TO THE COURT.
COURT. >> WE’LL TALK 2020.